Ec dh api how to - Draft for reviews (#3150)
mendix/docs: content/data-hub/general/data-hub-api-how-to copy.md

---
title: "Using the Data Hub API - DRAFT"
category: "General Info"
menu_order: 50

> description: "How to use the Dat Hub API a guide with examples."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "How to use the Data Hub API: a guide with examples."
```

tags: ["data hub", "Data Hub API", "registration", "api", "api-requests"]
---

## 1 Introduction

This guide takes you through how to use and the [DataHubAPI](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/) for searching and registering your data sources from your business applications to Data Hub and consuming them. 

> The [DataHubAPI](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/) is published as an OpenAPI 3.0 (formerly Swagger) specification which enables you to visualize the API. It has the latest documentation on the implemented calls which you can try out.  For full definitions of the objects and schemas used in this how-to refer to the specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [DataHubAPI](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/) is published as an OpenAPI 3.0 (formerly Swagger) specification which enables you to visualize the API. It has the latest documentation on the implemented calls.  For full definitions of the objects and schemas used in this how-to, refer to the specification.
```

> You can see the process of search and registration to Data Hub in the [Share Data Between Apps](/data-hub/share-data) how-to. This demonstrates the integrated functionality of Data Hub in Mendix Studio Pro for registering data sources. Using the Data Hub API you can create a deployment process for your apps to register the OData v3 and OData v4 services from these apps and make them available for use in another app through the Data Hub Catalog. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the process of search and registration to Data Hub in the [Share Data Between Apps](/data-hub/share-data) how-to. This demonstrates the integrated functionality of Data Hub in Mendix Studio Pro for registering data sources. You can also using the Data Hub API in your deployment pipeline to register OData v3 and v4 services in the Catalog. 
```

**Note**: To use the Mendix Data Hub a license is required.

**This how-to will teach you how to do use the API to do the following:**

- Search the catalog for a string – [Section 5](#api-search)
- Register the service in the Catalog –  [Section 6](#api-search)
- Register consumed datasets by an App – [Section 7](#consumed-ep)
- Search for data sets and data sources to consume by your business application for new app development [Section 9](#consume-data)

## 2 Prerequisites

Before starting this how-to, make sure you have completed the following:

- Have a registered Mendix Data Hub account

> - To access the API you must obtain a Personal Access Token (PAT) as described in [Generating your Personal Access Token](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/data-hub-apis#generatepat) to authenticate your integration’s API requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have a Personal Access Token (PAT) as described in [Generating your Personal Access Token](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/data-hub-apis#generatepat) to authenticate your API requests
```

## 3 Overview of the Data Hub API

> - You can access the latest Data Hub API at: [http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can access the latest Data Hub API specification at: [http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/).
```

- The base URL for all calls to the API is: https://hub.mendix.com/rest/datahubservice/v2/

> - All requests that are made to the Data Hub API must include the access to the organization’s Data Hub. This is accomplished by including the PAT ( [Generating your Personal Access Token](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/data-hub-apis#generatepat)) in the header of the request: `Authorization`:  `MxToken <your_PAT_Token>.` For more details see: [API calls and authentication](#authentication).

Reviewer: Getting your PAT doesn't work if your company doesn't have access to the Data Hub. Maybe this is clearer?

```suggestion
- Include your PAT ( [Generating your Personal Access Token](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/data-hub-apis#generatepat)) in the header of the request: `Authorization`:  `MxToken <your_PAT_Token>.` For more details see: [API calls and authentication](#authentication).
```

> - For the full specifications of the parameters and schemas and the response status codes refer to the  [OpenAPI 3.0 spec](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

- The requests that can be made through the Data Hub API:

  - Search for registered assets (data sources, datasets, attributes and associations) in the Catalog using GET /data
  - Registering datasets:
	Registering datasets involves registering the data source (OData services) that the dataset is exposed in. The following requests must be made in the given order using the returned UUID values for the subsequent requests:

> 		1. Application that the dataset originates from: POST application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		1. Application that the dataset originates from: POST /application
```

> 		1. Application that the dataset originates from: POST application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		1. Application that the dataset originates from
```
The endpoint is applications plural, I think people can find this in the spec.

> 		2. Environment that the dataset is deployed to: POST environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		2. Environment that the dataset is deployed to: POST /environment
```

> 		2. Environment that the dataset is deployed to: POST environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		2. Environment that the dataset is deployed to
```

> 		3. Register the published services (data source) of the application: PUT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		
```
We want people to use the other two now.

		4. Register the all the published services (data source) of the application
		5. Register consumed services (data source)

  - Find specific data sources and retrieve contracts to consume

## 4 Making the API Calls and Authentication {#authentication}

> This how-to guides users in using the Data Hub API, for full details of all the objects and schemas that define the collections and arrays that are required refer to the [Data Hub OpenAPI 3.0 spec](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This how-to guides users in using the Data Hub API, for full details of all the objects and schemas that define the collections and arrays that are required refer to the [Data Hub OpenAPI 3.0 spec](http://datahub-spec.s3-website.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com).
```

How many times it is useful to say this in this document?

> For each request described in this document, the method and URL is given for the base call with a description of the parameters and body. An example is given that you follow to try out the calls. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each request described in this document, the method and URL is given for the base call with a description of the parameters and body. An example is given that you can follow to try out the calls. 
```

For some examples, the [curl](http://curl.haxx.se/) command is also given. You will be required to enter the specifics for your own registration such as the returned values for your requests. 

**Note:** curl is an open-source tool curl that is pre-installed on many Linux and macOS systems. Windows users can download a version at curl.haxx.se. When using HTTPS on Windows, ensure that your system meets the curl requirements for SSL.

### 4.1 Authentication

> Authentication in the Data Hub API is established by defining the access to your organization’s Data Hub using the [PAT](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/data-hub-apis#generatepa). You do not specify any *authorization* for your request but must include the following key:value pair as part of the header for *each* request:  `Authorization`:  `MxToken <your_PAT_Token>`

Reviewer: Is this saying something different from section 3?

Author: No - 3 is the overview. 
Here it is explicit.
User behaviour is to skim over the 3 list, then then they will spring to the point where it is explicitly explained.
This way you catch both types of users.
It is the style of a how to

#### 4.1.1 Using Postman
If you prefer to use a tool with a graphical user interface when working with APIs, you can use a REST API client of your choice, for example, [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/).  Using Postman, for each request, provide the request URI, the HTTP method, and, if required, the request parameters and body.  Authentication is specified in the request **Header**.  You can set your PAT token as a variable which can be conveniently called for each request.

####  4.1.2 Using a Command Line Tool such as Curl
If you are using the [curl](http://curl.haxx.se/) command to send your HTTP requests to the API  then you must include the authentication header as given in this example of a GET call: 

`curl --location --request GET 'https://hub.mendix.com/rest/datahubservice/v2/data' \
--header 'Authorization: MxToken <*yourMxToken>*' \`

> Insert your `MxToken` for the the string <*your token*> for every request that you make.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Insert your `MxToken` for the string <*yourMxToken*> for every request that you make.
```
Is it clear for people that MxToken is the same as the PAT?

Author: Good catch Elizabeth.

### 4.2 Base Variables used in this How-to

For convenience and conciseness, throughout this how-to the following variables are used and should be substituted by the relevant values or those that are returned in the response:

- {{baseURL}} – the base URL for the Data Hub API:  https://hub.mendix.com/rest/datahubservice/v2/data
- {*AppUUID}* – insert the value returned in the API response for the UUID of the application

> - {*EnvironmentUUID} -* insert the value returned in the API response for the UUID of the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {*EnvironmentUUID} -* insert the value returned in the API response for the UUID of the environment
```

## 5 Searching in the Catalog{#api-search}

> Search in the Catalog returns the registered assets that satisfy the search string and filters. The search is carried out on all registered assets in the catalog (data sources, data sets, attributes and descriptions of the registered items).

Author: ```suggestion
Search in the Catalog returns the registered assets that satisfy the search string and filters you have specified. The search is carried out on all registered assets in the catalog (data sources, data sets, attributes and descriptions of the registered items).
```

> Search in the Catalog returns the registered assets that satisfy the search string and filters you have specified. The search is carried out on all registered assets in the catalog (data sources, data sets, attributes and descriptions of the registered items).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search in the Catalog returns the registered assets that satisfy the search string and filters you have specified. The search is carried out on all discoverable registered assets in the Catalog (data sources, data sets, attributes and descriptions of the registered items).
```

> ### 5.1 Method and Endpoint

Reviewer: I'm not finding value from these sections (through the end of 5) beyond what's already in the OpenAPI specification. Are there details here that aren't there?

An example Odata v3 service  **DataHub_Sample_1.0.0_OData3**  is provided in [Section 9](#consumed-ep) which you can use for this how-to.  The service is defined by the metadata.xml file.

**Note:** OData service contract files must be included in the request body in escaped JSON format. There are several online converters available for converting your *.xml* files into this format such as one available from [Freeformatter.com](https://www.freeformatter.com/json-escape.html#ad-output). Just paste the contents of your files and convert them to the escaped format.  

### 6.1 Registering an Application in the Catalog using POST

The first step is to register the application that the service originates from. 

**Note**: If the application deployed to the same requirement as the service you want to register is already registered in the Catalog (for previously registered services, for example), you can proceed to 6.3 using the `AppUUID` and `EnvUUID` for the registered service.  These objects can be obtained from search results as described in [Search request response](#api-search-results). 

> #### 6.1.1 Method and Endpoint

Reviewer: Same comment as on section 5, I don't think it's valuable to repeat the specs we have in OpenAPI.
